README.md, before:

Ghidra Firmware Utilities
=========================

Various modules for [Ghidra][1] to assist with PC firmware reverse-engineering.
This was accepted as a [coreboot project][2] for GSoC 2019.

## Features (very much WIP)
### PCI option ROM loader
 - Implements a FS loader for PCI option ROMs (handles hybrid ROMs,
   e.g. legacy x86 + UEFI)
 - Loads UEFI executables from PCI option ROMs (including compressed images)
 - Calculates entry point address for legacy x86 option ROMs (still needs to be
   manually loaded as a raw real-mode binary)
 - TODO: Write loader for legacy x86 option ROMs (automatically select
   real-mode x86)

## Planned functionality / TODO
### Firmware image loader
 - Implement FS loader for firmware images
 - Write parsers for Intel IFD (BIOS region), coreboot CBFS/FMAP, and UEFI
   firmware volumes

### UEFI loader
 - Write helper script to import GUIDs/etc (similar to [ida-efitools][3])

## Building & Installation

Ghidra's standard Gradle build system is used. Set the `GHIDRA_INSTALL_DIR`
environment variable before building:

```bash
$ export GHIDRA_INSTALL_DIR="/path/to/ghidra"
$ gradle
```

The module ZIP will be output to `dist/`. Use **File > Install Extensions** and
select the green plus to browse to the extension. Restart Ghidra when prompted.

## Usage
### PCI option ROM loader
Add a PCI option ROM to a Ghidra project. When prompted to select an import
mode, select **File system**. The images contained within the option ROM will
be displayed, and can be imported for analysis. Information for each image can
be displayed by selecting **Get Info** in the right-click menu for an image.

## License
Apache 2.0, with some exceptions:

 - `src/efidecompress/c/efidecompress.c`: BSD

## Credits
`src/efidecompress/c/efidecompress.c` is a lightly modified version of
[Decompress.c][4] from uefi-firmware-parser (which itself is derived from
[the original in EDK2 BaseTools][5]).

[1]: https://ghidra-sre.org/
[2]: https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/projects/#6413737605464064
[3]: https://github.com/danse-macabre/ida-efitools
[4]: https://github.com/theopolis/uefi-firmware-parser/blob/21106baf019db9dcd046a3c01ee7b32212de45a5/uefi_firmware/compression/Tiano/Decompress.c
[5]: https://github.com/tianocore/edk2/blob/2e351cbe8e190271b3716284fc1076551d005472/BaseTools/Source/C/Common/Decompress.c

Commit message:

option_rom: Add legacy x86 PCI option ROM loader
Add a basic loader for legacy x86 PCI option ROMs. This loader
automatically sets the binary language to x86 Real Mode (16-bit),
defines the entry point function (calculating the entry point address
from the ROM header), and defines data types for the PCI option ROM
header and the PCI data structure.

Also fix some bugs related to legacy option ROM entry point address
calculation and the handling of hybrid images in the filesystem loader.

README.md, after:

Ghidra Firmware Utilities
=========================

Various modules for [Ghidra][1] to assist with PC firmware reverse-engineering.
This was accepted as a [coreboot project][2] for GSoC 2019.

## Features (very much WIP)
### PCI option ROM loader
 - Implements a FS loader for PCI option ROMs (handles hybrid ROMs with
   multiple images, e.g. legacy x86 + UEFI)
 - Loads UEFI executables from PCI option ROMs (including compressed images)
 - Defines the entry point function and various header data types for legacy
   x86 option ROMs

## Planned functionality / TODO
### Firmware image loader
 - Implement FS loader for firmware images
 - Write parsers for Intel IFD (BIOS region), coreboot CBFS/FMAP, and UEFI
   firmware volumes

### UEFI loader
 - Write helper script to import GUIDs/etc (similar to [ida-efitools][3])

## Building & Installation

Ghidra's standard Gradle build system is used. Set the `GHIDRA_INSTALL_DIR`
environment variable before building:

```bash
$ export GHIDRA_INSTALL_DIR="/path/to/ghidra"
$ gradle
```

The module ZIP will be output to `dist/`. Use **File > Install Extensions** and
select the green plus to browse to the extension. Restart Ghidra when prompted.

## Usage
### PCI option ROM loader
Add a PCI option ROM to a Ghidra project. Legacy x86 option ROMs can be
directly loaded for analysis. Ensure that the binary format is set to
**x86 PCI Option ROM**, and import the binary.

UEFI option ROMs or option ROMs that contain more than one image should be
imported using the filesystem loader. When prompted to select an import mode,
select **File system**. The images contained within the option ROM will be
displayed, and can be imported for analysis. Legacy x86 images will be handled
the x86 PCI Option ROM loader, and UEFI images will be handled by the PE32
loader (compression is supported). Information for each image can be displayed
by selecting **Get Info** in the right-click menu.

## License
Apache 2.0, with some exceptions:

 - `src/efidecompress/c/efidecompress.c`: BSD

## Credits
`src/efidecompress/c/efidecompress.c` is a lightly modified version of
[Decompress.c][4] from uefi-firmware-parser (which itself is derived from
[the original in EDK2 BaseTools][5]).

[1]: https://ghidra-sre.org/
[2]: https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/projects/#6413737605464064
[3]: https://github.com/danse-macabre/ida-efitools
[4]: https://github.com/theopolis/uefi-firmware-parser/blob/21106baf019db9dcd046a3c01ee7b32212de45a5/uefi_firmware/compression/Tiano/Decompress.c
[5]: https://github.com/tianocore/edk2/blob/2e351cbe8e190271b3716284fc1076551d005472/BaseTools/Source/C/Common/Decompress.c
